PEP 750: Updates requested by the Steering Council (#4351)
python/peps: peps/pep-0750.rst

This PEP introduces a new string prefix, ``t``, to define template string literals.
These literals resolve to a new type, ``Template``, found in the standard library

> module ``string.templatelib``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module :mod:`!string.templatelib`.
```

The ``Template`` Type
---------------------

Template strings evaluate to an instance of a new immutable type,

> ``string.templatelib.Template``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:class:`!string.templatelib.Template`:
```

--------------------------

The ``Interpolation`` type represents an expression inside a template string.

> Like ``Template``, it is a new class found in the ``string.templatelib`` module:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like ``Template``, it is a new class found in the :mod:`!string.templatelib` module:
```

                yield i

The following examples show the ``__iter__()`` method in action:

.. code-block:: python

    assert list(t"") == []

    assert list(t"Hello") == ["Hello"]

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name}!"
    contents = list(template)
    assert len(contents) == 3
    assert contents[0] == "Hello "
    assert contents[1].value == "World"
    assert contents[1].expression == "name"
    assert contents[2] == "!"

Empty strings, which may be present in ``Template.strings``, are not included
in the output of the ``__iter__()`` method:

.. code-block:: python

    first = "Eat"

>     second = "Roquefort"

Reviewer: We must stick to our existing cheese!!
```suggestion
    second = "Red Leicester"
```

Author: Hah! Yes!

to how it behaves in f-strings, though due to limitations of the implementation
there is a slight difference.

> In particular, ``t'{foo=}'`` is treated as ``t'foo={foo!r}'``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In particular, ``t'{value=}'`` is treated as ``t'value={value!r}'``:
```

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name=}"
    assert template.strings[0] == "Hello name="
    assert template.interpolations[0].value == "World"
    assert template.interpolations[0].conversion == "r"

> If a separate format string is also provided, ``t'{foo=:fmt}`` is treated
> instead as ``t'foo={foo!s:fmt}'``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a separate format string is also provided, ``t'{value=:fmt}`` is treated
instead as ``t'value={value!s:fmt}'``.
```

> Whitespace is preserved in the debug specifier, so ``t'{foo = }'`` is
> treated as ``t'foo = {foo!r}'``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whitespace is preserved in the debug specifier, so ``t'{value = }'`` is
treated as ``t'value = {value!r}'``.
```

Previous versions of this PEP proposed placing the ``Template`` and
``Interpolation`` types in: ``types``, ``collections``, ``collections.abc``,
and even in a new top-level module, ``templatelib``. As of this writing, no core
team consensus has emerged on the final location for these types. The current
PEP leaves this open for a final decision.

One argument in favor of a new top-level ``templatelib`` module is that it would
allow for future addition of related methods (like ``convert()``) and for
potential future template processing code to be added to submodules

> (``templatelib.shell``, etc.).

Reviewer: Do we capture this rationale for a dedicated module anywhere, perhaps when describing future work after the initial implementation? I think it is valuable to reference.

Author: Agreed; re-added.

the text of the original template string from a ``Template`` instance. This was
rejected as being overly complex. The mapping between template literal source

> and the underlying AST is not one-to-one and there are several limitations with

Reviewer: If this is the first instance of "AST", could we spell out "abstract syntax tree (AST)"?

and even in a new top-level module, ``templatelib``. The final decision was to
place them in ``string.templatelib``.

One argument in favor of creating an entirely new module is that it would allow
for future addition of related methods (like ``convert()``) and for
potential future template processing code to be added to submodules

> (``string.templatelib.shell``, etc.).

Reviewer: Is there a better section than _Rejected Ideas_ for this?

Author: Hrm... maybe we could move it to the top of the doc, when `string.templatelib` is first mentioned? Dunno if that takes the reader out of the flow, though?

Reviewer: @davepeck how about the following, at the end of the _Specification_ section:

```rst
The :mod:`!string.templatelib` Module
-------------------------------------

The :mod:`string` module will be converted into a package, with a new
``templatelib`` submodule containing the ``Template`` and ``Interpolation``
types. Following the implementation of this PEP, this new module may be used
for related functions, such as :func:`!convert`, or potential future template
processing code, such as shell script helpers.
```

This would also cover that `string` is to be converted to a package.

Author: Ah, that's perfect. Thanks; updated!

separate PEP.

Removing ``conversion`` From ``Interpolation``
----------------------------------------------

> During the authoring of this PEP, we considered removing the ``conversion``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whilst drafting this PEP, we considered removing the ``conversion``
```

Author: Fixed.
